---
layout: post
title: Appsheet App Development - Jobs and Requests
description: No-code app development using Agile Methodology
image: assets/images/imgmain/Requests_app_data_relationships_02.png
---

I developed two separate no-code apps leveraging Google Appsheet, AppsScript and Sheets. The apps aimed at increasing the work efficiency and internal process compliance through process automation of two teams: Recruiting and Operations. 
#### Jobs app - Recruiting team

**Challenge:** The recruiting process was not streamlined and the Stakeholders were struggling to keep track of active jobs with a great amount of candidates. 

**Solution:** The developed app collects all jobs, candidate and interview data in one place while ensuring limited access (role-based) to the app, GDPR compliance and correct data input via quality checks. Hiring managers and Recruiters as well as HR have access to different parts of the app as each is responsible for different steps of the hiring process but now they have all the necessary information in one place.

**Outcome:** Automated 30% of the common manually performed repeatable steps and streamlined recruiting process in a single interface. Examples for the implemented automations are: notifying by email the managers and candidates for scheduled interviews, scheduling interviews through Calendar API and creating candidate offers.

#### Requests app - Operations team

**Challenge:** The operations team was overwhelmed by the amount of requests they needed to handle and track for travel, hardware and procurement. They also needed a simple way to track inventory and accurately and quickly inform employees of the status of their request.

**Solution:** The developed app collects all internal requests for Hardware, Software, Travel and Procurement while ensuring limited access (role-based) to the app, GDPR compliance and correct data input via quality checks. The Operations team have access to and can handle all incoming requests in one place.

**Outcome:** Automated 50% of the common manually performed repeatable steps and streamlined requests process in a single interface. Examples for the implemented automations are: travel order and financial report creation, email notification for the status of requests to the managers and employees, status changes based on request stage.

The applications were developed using Agile methodology, which involved iterative two-week sprints where I prioritised tasks based on their business value and the respective stakeholders' feedback.
