---
layout: post
title: Spotify Data - EDA
description: Python Programming, Jupyter NB and Visualisations Project
image: assets/images/imgsmall/Small_Spotify_data.png
href: b_spotifydata.html
---

This is a personal project for Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) and Visualisations created using Python Jupyter Notebooks with the data from my personal Spotify account. I am a big fan of Spotify because it allows me to enjoy music I like effortlessly without the need to create playlists. The new music it suggests is also usually very good but I was wondering if I would get the same insights and suggestions from my own data.

Data was provided by Spotify after an official request in April 2024. All initial files provided by Spotify came in JSON format, so in order to have a clearer idea of what is inside the data, one main file with my account's music streaming history (StreamingHistory_music_0.json) was converted to XLSX format. It was then assessed and prepared for analysis inside Google Sheets, for example a new column named 'Include Song' was added, based on the time a song was played. After that the file's data was loaded in a Jupyter Notebook where it went through several steps of processing and data visualisation using pandas, matplotlib, numpy and seaborn Python Libraries.

My results were extremely close to the yearly summary Spotify creates for users. The difference likely stems from the time period used, as Spotify's summary covers a calendar year. The Python Jupyter Notebook, the cleaned and ready for analysis file (XLSX) as well as the raw data (JSON) was added to a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/MihaelaBr/Spotify-project). It does not contain any PII.

The project was inspired by a Women in Data Science (WiDS) Workshop on using Python for Spotify data analysis. I used it as an initial template to work with my own data and built on top of it in terms of visualisation features, metrics used and added, data analysed. [WiDS Workshop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2zaGRy54SV8&ab_channel=WomeninDataScienceWorldwide)
